README.md, before:

# UniTrain

UniTrain is an open-source, unified platform for effortless machine learning model training, evaluation, and deployment across diverse tasks. Experience seamless experimentation and model deployment with UniTrain.

**Note**: For _Google Colab_ use '!' before every command.

## Installation instruction

### Install the **UniTrain** module using:

`pip install UniTrain`

### Install **torch** library using:

`pip install torch`

# Usage

## Training

### Classification

**Adding Data for Training**

- Create a 'data' folder.

- The 'data' folder will contain three different folders named 'train', 'test', and 'eval' used for training, testing, and evaluation purposes.
- Each of the 'train', 'test', and 'eval' folders contain data sets of different categories on which you want to use your model
- Data folder structure 'content'->'data'->('train', 'test', 'eval')->(category1, category2, category3, .....)

**Training the model**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.classification import get_data_loader, train_model
from UniTrain.models.classification import ResNet9
from UniTrain.utils.classification import parse_folder
import torch


if parse_folder("data"):

  train_dataloader = get_data_loader("/path/to/dir", 32, True, split='train')
  test_dataloader = get_data_loader("/path/to/dir", 32, True, split='test')

  model = ResNet9(num_classes=6)
  model.to(torch.device('cuda'))

  train_model(model, train_dataloader, test_dataloader,
              num_epochs=10,optimizer = optim.Adam, loss_criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss, learning_rate=1e-3, checkpoint_dir='checkpoints',logger = "training.log", device=torch.device('cuda'))
```

### Segmentation

**Adding Data for Training**

- Create a 'data' folder.
- The 'data' folder will contain three different folders named 'train', 'test', and 'eval' used for training, testing, and evaluation purposes.
- Each of the 'train', 'test', and 'eval' folders contain data sets of 'images' and 'masks'.
- Data folder structure 'content'->'data'->('train', 'test', 'eval')->('images', 'masks').

**Training the model**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.segmentation import get_data_loader, train_model, generate_model_summary
from UniTrain.models.segmentation import UNet
from UniTrain.utils.segmentation import parse_folder
import torch


if parse_folder(data_dir):

    train_data_loader = get_data_loader(data_dir="/path/to/dir", batch_size=32, shuffle=True, transform=None)
    test_data_loader = get_data_loader(data_dir="/path/to/dir", batch_size=32, shuffle=True, transform=None)

    model = UNet(n_class=20)
    model.to(torch.device('cuda'))

    generate_model_summary(model=model, input_size=(3, 512, 512))

    
    train_unet( model, train_data_loader, test_data_loader, num_epochs=10, optimizer = optim.Adam, loss_criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss, learning_rate=1e-3, checkpoint_dir='checkpoints', logger="training.log",iou=False, device=torch.device('cuda'))


### DCGAN

**Adding Data for Training**

- For the data create a folder 'data'->'realimages'->'images'-> Add your data here
- No need to create fake images as it would be generated by the untrained generator

**Training the model ( both discriminator and generator )**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.DCGAN import parse_folder, get_data_loader, train_model
from UniTrain.models.DCGAN import disc, gen
import glob
import torch

if parse_folder('data'):
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.jpg")
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.png")
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.jpeg")

    train_dataloader = get_data_loader('data', 128)
    discriminator_model = disc.discriminator
    generator_model = gen.generator

    train_model( discriminator_model, generator_model, train_dataloader, batch_size = 128 ,  epochs = 25, learning_rate = 1e-3, torch.device('cpu'),checkpoint_dir='checkpoints')
```


### StyleTransfer

**Adding Data for Training**  
- For the data create a folder 'data'->'images'->'content'-> Add your content image here
- Create a folder 'data'->'images'->'style'-> Add your style image here

**Training the model ( both discriminator and generator )**  
- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments  

```
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.StyleTransfer import image_loader, run_style_transfer, imshow, parse_folder
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from torchvision.utils import save_image
from torchvision.models import vgg19
import torch

if parse_folder('data'):

    device = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')
    style_img = image_loader("./data/images/style/style.jpg", device)
    content_img = image_loader("./data/images/content/content.jpg", device)

    assert style_img.size() == content_img.size(), \
    "we need to import style and content images of the same size"

    input_img = content_img.clone()
    cnn = vgg19(weights = "VGG19_Weights.DEFAULT").features.eval()
    output = run_style_transfer(cnn, content_img, style_img, input_img)

    plt.figure()
    imshow(output, title='Output Image')

    # sphinx_gallery_thumbnail_number = 4
    plt.ioff()
    plt.show()

    save_image(output, "./data/images/generated/generated.jpg")
```
=======
# Contributing

Check out [contribution.md](contribution.md) for guidelines on contributing to the repo.

Commit message:

Documentation for Issues Resolved #24, #25, #26: Updated README.md with W&B Logging (#76)
* [docs] added logging instructions and resources

---------


Co-authored-by: ishan121028 <96590593+ishan121028@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# UniTrain

UniTrain is an open-source, unified platform for effortless machine learning model training, evaluation, and deployment across diverse tasks. Experience seamless experimentation and model deployment with UniTrain.

**Note**: For _Google Colab_ use '!' before every command.

## Installation instruction

### Install the **UniTrain** module using:

`pip install UniTrain`

### Install **torch** library using:

`pip install torch`

# Usage

## Training

### Classification

**Adding Data for Training**

- Create a 'data' folder.

- The 'data' folder will contain three different folders named 'train', 'test', and 'eval' used for training, testing, and evaluation purposes.
- Each of the 'train', 'test', and 'eval' folders contain data sets of different categories on which you want to use your model
- Data folder structure 'content'->'data'->('train', 'test', 'eval')->(category1, category2, category3, .....)

**Training the model**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.classification import get_data_loader, train_model
from UniTrain.models.classification import ResNet9
from UniTrain.utils.classification import parse_folder
import torch


if parse_folder("data"):

  train_dataloader = get_data_loader("/path/to/dir", 32, True, split='train')
  test_dataloader = get_data_loader("/path/to/dir", 32, True, split='test')

  model = ResNet9(num_classes=6)
  model.to(torch.device('cuda'))

  train_model(model, train_dataloader, test_dataloader,
              num_epochs=10,optimizer = optim.Adam, loss_criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss, learning_rate=1e-3, checkpoint_dir='checkpoints',logger = "training.log", device=torch.device('cuda'))
```

### Segmentation

**Adding Data for Training**

- Create a 'data' folder.
- The 'data' folder will contain three different folders named 'train', 'test', and 'eval' used for training, testing, and evaluation purposes.
- Each of the 'train', 'test', and 'eval' folders contain data sets of 'images' and 'masks'.
- Data folder structure 'content'->'data'->('train', 'test', 'eval')->('images', 'masks').

**Training the model**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.segmentation import get_data_loader, train_model, generate_model_summary
from UniTrain.models.segmentation import UNet
from UniTrain.utils.segmentation import parse_folder
import torch


if parse_folder(data_dir):

    train_data_loader = get_data_loader(data_dir="/path/to/dir", batch_size=32, shuffle=True, transform=None)
    test_data_loader = get_data_loader(data_dir="/path/to/dir", batch_size=32, shuffle=True, transform=None)

    model = UNet(n_class=20)
    model.to(torch.device('cuda'))

    generate_model_summary(model=model, input_size=(3, 512, 512))

    
    train_unet( model, train_data_loader, test_data_loader, num_epochs=10, optimizer = optim.Adam, loss_criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss, learning_rate=1e-3, checkpoint_dir='checkpoints', logger="training.log",iou=False, device=torch.device('cuda'))


### DCGAN

**Adding Data for Training**

- For the data create a folder 'data'->'realimages'->'images'-> Add your data here
- No need to create fake images as it would be generated by the untrained generator

**Training the model ( both discriminator and generator )**

- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments

```py
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.DCGAN import parse_folder, get_data_loader, train_model
from UniTrain.models.DCGAN import disc, gen
import glob
import torch

if parse_folder('data'):
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.jpg")
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.png")
    real_image_paths = glob.glob("data/real_images/images/*.jpeg")

    train_dataloader = get_data_loader('data', 128)
    discriminator_model = disc.discriminator
    generator_model = gen.generator

    train_model( discriminator_model, generator_model, train_dataloader, batch_size = 128 ,  epochs = 25, learning_rate = 1e-3, torch.device('cpu'),checkpoint_dir='checkpoints')
```
### W&B Logging (Weights and Biases Dashboard)
- This is an easy way to maintain a log of all runs of your model and save data about the same
- W&B creates a dashboard where data for each run is saved and can be easily accessed whilst being visually stunning
- This functionality has been added in the training files in UniTrain/utils for classification.py, segmentation.py and DCGAN.py
- An additional method to log specific info such as images on each run of the GAN or IOU scores and many more such variables has been added as comments in these above files and can be used instead to create a custom logging on W&B as opposed to the default logger
- A tutorial on W&B to get a clearer idea: https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/track 
- The above link also contains .ipynb notebooks to run examples
- The user will have to create a W&B account and enter his passkey to log the experiments to his account

### StyleTransfer

**Adding Data for Training**  
- For the data create a folder 'data'->'images'->'content'-> Add your content image here
- Create a folder 'data'->'images'->'style'-> Add your style image here

**Training the model ( both discriminator and generator )**  
- Run the following code to train your model and you can change the default arguments with your custom arguments  

```
import UniTrain
from UniTrain.utils.StyleTransfer import image_loader, run_style_transfer, imshow, parse_folder
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from torchvision.utils import save_image
from torchvision.models import vgg19
import torch

if parse_folder('data'):

    device = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')
    style_img = image_loader("./data/images/style/style.jpg", device)
    content_img = image_loader("./data/images/content/content.jpg", device)

    assert style_img.size() == content_img.size(), \
    "we need to import style and content images of the same size"

    input_img = content_img.clone()
    cnn = vgg19(weights = "VGG19_Weights.DEFAULT").features.eval()
    output = run_style_transfer(cnn, content_img, style_img, input_img)

    plt.figure()
    imshow(output, title='Output Image')

    # sphinx_gallery_thumbnail_number = 4
    plt.ioff()
    plt.show()

    save_image(output, "./data/images/generated/generated.jpg")
```
=======
# Contributing

Check out [contribution.md](contribution.md) for guidelines on contributing to the repo.
